# Team Name
team_radiance_soen341projectF2023

# Project Description
The purpose of this project is to create a real estate website for future homeowners and property renters to find a property that satisfies all their needs at a desired price. The current property owners will be able to list all the features of their properties while creating their listing in order to adress all the questions a potenital buyer might have.

# Team Members and Roles
- __Daniel François__ : _Fullstack_ <br> 
    This member assumes a flexible role, including both front-end and back-end responsibilities. He designs the user interface and ensures that it is visually appealing, while also developing the server-side components. This member bridges the gap between the client and server side, to ensure seamless data flow, by collaborating with other developers to align the application with project objectives. His experience with a wide range of technologies allows him to oversee the entire development cycle of the real estate web application.

- __Steven Lam__ : _Front-end developer_ <br> 
    This member is responsible for designing the user interface and to optimize user experience, by implementing visually appealing interfaces and responsive web components. Experienced with CSS, HTML, and Javascript, this member closely collaborates with back-end developers to integrate front-end and back-end modules.  

- __Benjamin Ollomo__ :  _Database_ <br> 
    This member is in charge of building an efficient and structured database schema to store relevant information about users, as well as the real estate operations. The design and maintenance of the database consists of optimizing query performance, implementing data security measures and ensuring data integrity. The database developer frequently collaborates with the back-end and front-end developers to facilitate data access and data integration and needs a thorough understanding of all features to be implemented.

- __Alexander El Ghaoui__ : _Fullstack/ScrumMaster_ <br> 
    This member is a collaborator and a problem solver, as well as guiding the team in the effective use of Agile. He continuously reviews the product backlog and ensures that progress is made and that the project is aligned with the objectives. Also, he has a general overview of the entire application and its different components and is responsible for bringing new featuresto the developers. As a full stack developer, he is also going to contribute to the development of front-end and back-end components.

- __Ceyhun Topcu__ : _Backend developer_ <br> 
    This member is responsible for building and maintaining the server-side components and logic of the operations of the real estate web application. The back-end developer has a thorough understanding of all the operations to be implemented, to develop the server architecture and the overall functionality of the application. He closely collaborates with front-end developers to ensure coherent data integration and user interaction, as well as optimize application performance. His knowledge is essential to the functionality, reliability and robustness of the entire application.


# Project Approach
To begin the real estate project, we need to define our mission, as well as the objectives the team is trying to achieve. For example, our mission is to develop a platform that simplifies property transactions by creating a design that is simple and user-friendly. Before we start implementing anything, we are going to create some schematics for different parts of the website. We need a general overview of the functions we are going to implement (back-end), the different components of each interface (front-end), and how we are going to store the data collected (database). Then, we are going to identify different user groups of the application, such as brokers, property renters, system administrators, and homebuyers to identify their needs and derive user stories from it. The developers are then going to break down user stories into multiple tasks that are going to be attributed to each member. Each member of the team is involved in the development of user stories and tasks to make sure there is no ambiguity. Throughout the sprints, functionalities are progressively integrated to the whole system and new user stories can also come to light, which means we are going to design our website to accommodate the introduction of changes. The members of the team are also going to work together as much as possible, so that no islands of expertise form and this allows each teammate to work on all areas of the system. The team upholds Agile practices throughout the entire project by organizing stand-up meetings 2 times per week to track progress, discuss roadblocks, and retrospectives to foster improving performance.


# Technology
- __Front-end:__
    - __HTML:__ It offers compatibility, flexibility and accessibility benefits. HTML is also going to ensure the inclusion of responsive, standardized, and visually appealing web components. Consequently, it facilitates the integration of interactive features, promotes accessibility for all users, which makes this tool essential to build a user-friendly platform.
    - __CSS:__ In the development of a real estate website, this tool provides styling and layout features to create pleasurable and consistent designs across interfaces. This technology allows the implementation of responsive design for adaptability, enhancing user experience. Therefore, CSS is going to be pivotal for the development of a user-friendly website.
    - __Javascript:__ This tool enables the integration of interactive, enhancing user engagement. It is going to be helpful to implement functionalities, such as image galleries, property searching process and much more. Javascript’s versatility and compatibility makes it crucial for the development of an engaging real estate website.
    - __Java:__ For the development of this website, the employment of Javascript is more suitable for our needs, since Javascript was designed for client-side scripting, making it ideal for creating responsive interfaces. It enjoys the benefits of a thriving development community with specialized frameworks and libraries and excels in optimizing front-end performance. Conversely, Java has more purposes for server-side development and lacks native browser support, making it less suitable for this project.
    - __React:__ This tool empowers the development of interactive and responsive features. WIth React, we could implement filtered property search, integrate a map to indicate the location of each property, real time chat box for support and much more. As a consequence, React becomes indispensable for designing a modern website that keeps users engaged by delivering superior user experience.
    - __Angular:__ In the context of this project, we would rather use React instead of Angular because of its extensive ecosystem. Also, since React uses a library-based approach, developers have the freedom of integrating tools and libraries for more functionalities. The abundance of components available and its optimal performance can contribute to faster development and better user experiences, which are important features to have for a real estate website with image-rich listing and interactive attributes.
    - __Bootstrap:__ This technology is indispensable for the development of a responsive real-estate website because it provides pre-designed UI components for rapid development and a polished professional design. Its extensive array of functionalities ensures efficient development, which is crucial in this competitive market.

    
- __Back-end:__
    - __NodeJS:__ It works quite fast due to the advanced client-server interaction processes, asynchronous requests processing, and no-blocking I/O, increasing user satisfaction. NodeJS should be employed for its scalability, performance, and real-time functionalities, which enables efficient handling of user requests and easy integration of databases and APIs. Also, it shares a codebase with Javascript and has a strong developer community ensuring ongoing support.
    - __ExpressJS:__ It is known for its simplicity, speed, and extensive ecosystem of third-party libraries, making it a popular choice for building lightweight, fast, and customizable backend applications. This technology is valuable for this project because it is very efficient in building RESTful APIs and web applications. Its robust middleware support and streamlined design simplify tasks, such as handling, authenticating and request processing, rendering it an excellent choice for building a scalable web application.
    - __MySQL:__ It is a secure and easy-to-use database that is preffered for e-commerce websites. Also, this database technology is versatile and offers versatility in terms of managing a database. Its ability to retrieve, handle data collected, and scalability guarantees reliable support for a feature-rich platform.


- __Version Control:__
    - __GitHub:__ Allows us to create, store, change, merge, and collaborate on files or code. Any member of a team can access the GitHub repository and see the most recent version in real-time. Github is invaluable because it allows smooth collaboration, has a robust version control system, and a user-friendly web interface. These features help streamlining the entire development process by enhancing teamwork and simplify code management. 
    - __Bazaar:__ We decided as a team to use Github instead of Bazaar, because Github offers access to a larger community of developers, specialized web tools, smoother collaboration, due to its user-friendly interface. Conversely, Bazaar’s limited adopted and smaller community, could make it difficult to find resources and tools tailored for a real-estate web application.
